README.md, before:

# Calculator

![npm version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-blue)

The `calculator` is a JavaScript-based library designed to parse, convert, and evaluate mathematical expressions. It supports basic arithmetic operations and handles complex expressions with parentheses for operator precedence. This project is created for learning purposes and is inspired by the Microsoft Calculator app on Windows 10.

---

## Features

- **Arithmetic Operations**: Supports addition (`+`), subtraction (`-`), multiplication (`*`), and division (`/`).
- **Parentheses Handling**: Supports nested parentheses for proper operator precedence.
- **Expression Parsing**: Converts infix expressions to postfix notation using the Shunting Yard algorithm.
- **Error Handling**: Provides detailed error messages for invalid expressions or unsupported tokens.
- **Division by Zero Handling**: Explicitly handles cases like `0 / 0` and `1 / 0`.

---

## Recent Updates

1. **`.gitattributes` File**:

   - Added to normalize line endings and handle file types consistently across different operating systems.

2. **`run_git_normalization.sh` Script**:
   - A utility script to normalize all files in the repository according to the `.gitattributes` rules.

---

## Installation

To use the `calculator` library in your project, clone the repository and install the dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/WebDevsOrg/calculator.git
cd calculator
npm install
```

---

## Example Usage

```javascript
const calculator = require("./calculator");

// Simple addition
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("5+5")); // Output: 10

// Complex expression
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("2+3*3/(4-3)")); // Output: 11

// Nested parentheses
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("(1+(2*3))/(2+4)")); // Output: 1

// Division by zero
try {
  console.log(calculator.parseExpr("1/0"));
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message); // Output: Division by zero is undefined (0 / 0).
}

// Invalid expression
try {
  console.log(calculator.parseExpr("2^3"));
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message); // Output: Unsupported token encountered: '^'
}
```

---

## Normalizing Files

To normalize files in the repository:

1. Ensure `.gitattributes` is committed.
2. Run the `run_git_normalization.sh` script:

   ```bash
   bash run_git_normalization.sh
   ```

---

## Requirements

- Node.js
- Git (for repository management)

---

## Development

### Running Tests

This project uses `mocha` for testing. To run the test suite, use the following command:

```bash
npm test
```

### Linting and Formatting

The project uses `eslint` and `prettier` for linting and formatting. Run the following commands to lint and format the code:

- Lint the code:

  ```bash
  npm run lint
  ```

- Format the code:

  ```bash
  npm run format
  ```

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas for new features or improvements, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch.
3. Commit your changes.
4. Push the branch and create a pull request.

---

## Exported Functions

The `calculator` library provides the following exported functions:

- **`parseExpr`**: Parses an infix algebraic expression, converts it to postfix notation, and evaluates the result.

Currently, `parseExpr` is the only function accessible outside the `calculator.js` file. If you need access to additional internal functions, consider exporting them explicitly in `calculator.js`.

---

## Changelog

For a detailed list of changes in each version, see the [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) file.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

---

## Issues

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/WebDevsOrg/calculator/issues).

Commit message:

Support of exponentiation operator and negative numbers

README.md, after:

# Calculator

![npm version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-blue)

The `calculator` is a JavaScript-based library designed to parse, convert, and evaluate mathematical expressions. It supports basic arithmetic operations and handles complex expressions with parentheses for operator precedence. This project is created for learning purposes and is inspired by the Microsoft Calculator app on Windows 10.

---

## Features

- **Arithmetic Operations**: Supports addition (`+`), subtraction (`-`), multiplication (`*`), division (`/`), and exponentiation (`^`).
- **Parentheses Handling**: Supports nested parentheses for proper operator precedence.
- **Expression Parsing**: Converts infix expressions to postfix notation using the Shunting Yard algorithm.
- **Error Handling**: Provides detailed error messages for invalid expressions or unsupported tokens.
- **Division by Zero Handling**: Explicitly handles cases like `0 / 0` and `1 / 0`.
- **Negative Numbers**: Supports negative numbers in expressions (e.g., `2^-2`).
- **Right-Associative Operators**: Handles right-associativity for operators like `^`.

---

## Recent Updates

1. **Negative Number Support**:
   - Added support for negative numbers in expressions (e.g., `2^-2`).
   - Updated `isNumber` function to handle both positive and negative numbers.

2. **Exponentiation**:
   - Implemented right-associativity for the `^` operator (e.g., `2^2^3` is evaluated as `2^(2^3)`).

3. **Improved Error Handling**:
   - Enhanced error messages for invalid expressions and unsupported tokens.

---

## Installation

To use the `calculator` library in your project, clone the repository and install the dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/WebDevsOrg/calculator.git
cd calculator
npm install
```

---

## Example Usage

```javascript
const calculator = require("./calculator");

// Simple addition
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("5+5")); // Output: 10

// Complex expression
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("2+3*3/(4-3)")); // Output: 11

// Nested parentheses
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("(1+(2*3))/(2+4)")); // Output: 1

// Division by zero
try {
  console.log(calculator.parseExpr("1/0"));
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message); // Output: Division by zero is undefined (0 / 0).
}

// Invalid expression
try {
  console.log(calculator.parseExpr("2^3"));
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message); // Output: Unsupported token encountered: '^'
}

// Exponentiation
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("2^3")); // Output: 8
console.log(calculator.parseExpr("2^2^3")); // Output: 256 (Right-associative)
```

---

## Normalizing Files

To normalize files in the repository:

1. Ensure `.gitattributes` is committed.
2. Run the `run_git_normalization.sh` script:

   ```bash
   bash run_git_normalization.sh
   ```

---

## Requirements

- Node.js
- Git (for repository management)

---

## Development

### Running Tests

This project uses `mocha` for testing. To run the test suite, use the following command:

```bash
npm test
```

### Linting and Formatting

The project uses `eslint` and `prettier` for linting and formatting. Run the following commands to lint and format the code:

- Lint the code:

  ```bash
  npm run lint
  ```

- Format the code:

  ```bash
  npm run format
  ```

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas for new features or improvements, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch.
3. Commit your changes.
4. Push the branch and create a pull request.

---

## Exported Functions

The `calculator` library provides the following exported functions:

- **`parseExpr`**: Parses an infix algebraic expression, converts it to postfix notation, and evaluates the result.

Currently, `parseExpr` is the only function accessible outside the `calculator.js` file. If you need access to additional internal functions, consider exporting them explicitly in `calculator.js`.

---

## Changelog

For a detailed list of changes in each version, see the [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) file.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

---

## Issues

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/WebDevsOrg/calculator/issues).
